# Setting up a Project with Node

Welcome to JSCRIPT 400 - Server Side Development with JavaScript

During class, we will be using repositories like these to develop skills and solidify concepts. I would recommend reading through the instructions _before_ coming to class to prime yourself to the material.

Part of your homework assignment for each class will be to make a Pull Request against this repository. Your Pull Request should include answers to any questions in this document.

As we work together on this during class, I would encourage you to make comments next to code we write. Explain what is happening in your own words so that later you have those notes as a reference.

## Core Learning Objective

*	Use NodeJS APIs to interact with files and the web

## Sub-Objectives

* Setup a basic NPM project
* Run your project from the command line with scripts
* Export and require your own files
* Require and use core Node libraries
* Install, require, and use packages from the web

### Prereqs

To complete this lesson, make sure that `node` and `npm` is installed and can be run from the command line. My versions of each are as follows:

```bash
$ node -v
v12.2.0


6.9.0
```

07/02/2019
updated .gitignore
deleted module
updated readme.md

### Instructions & Guiding Questions

- [ ] Fork & Clone this repository

* **Question:** What is the difference between forking and cloning a repository as opposed to just cloning a repository?

* **Your Answer:**
just cloning a repository - make no linking back to your github repo, no updaing when things are changed
forking and cloning - linking to your github repo, updates can be pushed to online repo 



- [ ] Run `npm init -y` from the command line

* **Question:** What does `npm init` do? How does the `-y` flag modify that command?

* **Your Answer:**

npm init 
to initialize a project
promt for input from user
project's name,
project's version,
project's description,

npm init -y
-y stands for yes
generate an empty npm project without going through an interactive process

- [ ] Take a look at the file that was generated by the previous command

* **Question:** What is the purpose of the following keys? "name", "scripts", "license"

* **Your Answer:**

name: project's name
scripts: to automate repetitive tasks, put them in scripts if you dont want to type long line into command promt
license: project's license set to ISC Internet Systems Consortium license

- [ ] Create a `.gitignore` file

* **Question:** What is the purpose of the `.gitignore` file? What is the significance of a "dot-file?"

* **Your Answer:**

.gitignore
contain files that to be ignore: pets.json
not get push/update to GitHub
files that change all the time while testing/building

dot-file
configuration files 
hidden files

- [ ] Create an `index.js` file with the following contents: `console.log('Hello, Node!')`

* **Question:** From the command line, how can you run this file?

* **Your Answer:**

node index.js

- [ ] Run `npm test` from the command line

* **Question:** What happens and how is this related to what is in the `package.json` file? 

* **Your Answer:**

 "scripts": {
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  },

- [ ] Create a new "script" command called "start" that has the following value: `node index.js`

* **Question:** What will you enter on the command line to run that script?

* **Your Answer:**

npm start
> w1-node-ecosystem@1.0.0 start C:\source\Summer2019\w1-node-ecosystem       
> node index.js
Hello, Node!

- [ ] Change the name of your "start" script to "my-file"

* **Question:** The same pattern will not work to try and run this script. How can you successfully get this script to run?

* **Your Answer:**

my-file is not one of npm command


- [ ] Create a new file called `profile.js`. Inside the file, copy the following but replace `<your-name>` with your name:
  ```js
  module.exports = '<your-name>'
  ```

  Add the following to your `index.js` file. Then, run your file.
  ```js
  const profile = require('./profile.js')
  console.log(profile)
  ```

* **Question:** What gets logged? Why?

* **Your Answer:**
PS C:\source\Summer2019\w1-node-ecosystem> node index.js
Hello, Node!
Toan Bui


* **Question:** What is `module.exports` and what is its _type_ in JavaScript? What is `require` and what is its _type_ in JavaScript?

* **Your Answer:**

module.exports
exported as a module for future use in other js files

ex: in hello.js we have
module.exports = 'Hello world';

require
to use modules from other js files
ex: in index.js we have
const gretting = require('./hello.js');
console.log(greeting);
the output is Hello world

type in JavaScript
String, Number, Boolean, Undefined, Null, Object, Array, Function

- [ ] We can only export one thing from files when using Node. With that said, export both your name and your birthday from the `profile.js` file.

* **Question:** What are some ways you can solve this problem?

* **Your Answer:**

module.exports = {age, name, phone}

- [ ] Add the following to your `index.js` file. Then, run your file.
  ```js
  const path = require('path')
  console.log(path.resolve())
  ```

* **Question:** What is `path` and where does it come from?

* **Your Answer:**

Hello, Node!
Toan Bui
C:\source\Summer2019\w1-node-ecosystem


- [ ] Install the [moment](https://www.npmjs.com/package/moment) package

* **Question:** What command can you run to install this package?

* **Your Answer:**

npm install moment --save
https://momentjs.com/


- [ ] On your own, use this package in the `index.js` file

* **Question:** Do you need to use a `./` to require the package? Why or why not?

* **Your Answer:**

const moment = require('./node_modules/moment/moment.js')
const timenow = moment().format('LTS')
console.log(timenow)

Hello, Node!
Toan Bui
C:\source\Summer2019\w1-node-ecosystem
7:32:32 PM



- [ ] Move your `profile.js` file into a `src/` folder. Update the path in your `index.js` file to ensure everything continues to work.

const profile = require('./node_modules/moment/src/profile')
console.log(profile)

#### Resources

- [Node.js Built-In Modules](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v12.x/docs/api/)
- [NPM: Moment](https://www.npmjs.com/package/moment)
